[Title]
Arsenic-induced oxidative stress, cholinesterase activity in the brain of Swiss albino mice, and its amelioration by antioxidants Vitamin E and Coenzyme Q10.

[Astract]
Arsenic toxicity becomes one of the major public health issues in several countries. Chronic and acute exposure to arsenic has been reported to be toxic to various systems of the human body and also observed in controlled experimental studies. The study was conducted to evaluate the neurotoxic effect of arsenic in Swiss albino mice and its amelioration by Vitamin E, Coenzyme Q10 and their combination. Swiss albino mice were treated with arsenic of 136 ppm for 15 days. The daily dose is 1/3 of LD 50 (acute) reported dose of arsenic. Thereafter, the animals were maintained either on drinking water or treated with Vitamin E (50 mg/kg bwt), Coenzyme Q10 (10 mg/kg bwt), and their combination by i.p.daily for 15 days. After the treatment, animals were sacrificed. The weight of the brain was marginally lower (ns), in arsenic-treated group as compared to control and antioxidant-protected groups. The LPO (lipid peroxidation) level was higher in arsenic-treated group, and this elevation was checked to some extent by the selected antioxidants which were statistically significant in combination of antioxidant-protected group. A significant reduction was found in GSH (reduced glutathione) level in the brain of arsenic-treated mice whereas GSH level was considerably higher in antioxidant-protected groups. Further, total thiol and total protein level were lower in arsenic-treated group. However, total thiol was significantly higher in antioxidant-protected groups. CAT (catalase) activity was significantly lower while SOD (superoxide dismutase) activity was marginally lowered in arsenic-treated group, and it was slightly higher in antioxidant-protected groups. Further, reduction in AChE (acetylcholinesterase) and BChE (butyrylcholinesterase) and motor coordination activity were also observed in arsenic-treated groups. Whereas, a higher AChE, BChE, and motor coordination activity was observed in antioxidant-protected group. These data indicate a positive role of selected antioxidant against the toxicity of arsenic in the brain of mice.
